sample-reports.md, before:

Sample Reports in SQL format

## Finance

### Unpaid Sales Orders

- Basic query

```sql
SELECT *
FROM CODBEX_SALESORDER as SO
JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
```

- Count all sales orders and group by `CUSTOMER` and order by `number of unpaid orders`

```sql
SELECT
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.SALESORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_SALES_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.SALESORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDER SO ON C.CUSTOMER_ID = SO.SALESORDER_CUSTOMER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.CUSTOMER_ID, C.CUSTOMER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_SALES_ORDERS DESC;
```

- Count sales orders and group by `CUSTOMER` and order by `number of unpaid amount`

```sql
SELECT
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.SALESORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_SALES_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.SALESORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDER SO ON C.CUSTOMER_ID = SO.SALESORDER_CUSTOMER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.CUSTOMER_ID, C.CUSTOMER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_AMOUNT DESC;
```

- All unpaid sales orders group by `CUSTOMER`, `SALESORDER_NUMBER` and order by `SALESORDER_DUE` ASC 

```sql
SELECT
    SO.SALESORDER_NUMBER,
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    SO.SALESORDER_DATE,
    SO.SALESORDER_DUE,
    SUM(SO.SALESORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDER SO ON C.CUSTOMER_ID = SO.SALESORDER_CUSTOMER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME, SO.SALESORDER_NUMBER
ORDER BY SO.SALESORDER_DUE ASC
```

### Unpaid Purchase Orders

- Basic query

```sql
SELECT *
FROM CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER as SO
JOIN
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
```

- Count all purchase orders and group by `SUPPLIER` and order by `number of unpaid orders`

```sql
SELECT
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.PURCHASEORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_PURCHASE_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.PURCHASEORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_SUPPLIER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER SO ON C.SUPPLIER_ID = SO.PURCHASEORDER_SUPPLIER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.SUPPLIER_ID, C.SUPPLIER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_PURCHASE_ORDERS DESC;
```

- Count purchase orders and group by `SUPPLIER` and order by `number of unpaid amount`

```sql
SELECT
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.PURCHASEORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_PURCHASE_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.PURCHASEORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_SUPPLIER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER SO ON C.SUPPLIER_ID = SO.PURCHASEORDER_SUPPLIER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.SUPPLIER_ID, C.SUPPLIER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_AMOUNT DESC;
```

- All unpaid purchase orders group by `SUPPLIER`, `PURCHASEORDER_NUMBER` and order by `PURCHASEORDER_DUE` ASC 

```sql
SELECT
    SO.PURCHASEORDER_NUMBER,
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME,
    SO.PURCHASEORDER_DATE,
    SO.PURCHASEORDER_DUE,
    SUM(SO.PURCHASEORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_SUPPLIER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER SO ON C.SUPPLIER_ID = SO.PURCHASEORDER_SUPPLIER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME, SO.PURCHASEORDER_NUMBER
ORDER BY SO.PURCHASEORDER_DUE ASC
```

### Cashflow

- Net Cashflow
```sql
SELECT 
    SUM(TRANSACTION_AMOUNT) AS CASHFLOW_NET,
    DATE_TRUNC('day', TRANSACTION_DATE) AS CASHFLOW_DATE
FROM (
    SELECT 
        SALESINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        SALESINVOICE_NET AS TRANSACTION_AMOUNT
    FROM CODBEX_SALESINVOICE
    UNION ALL
    SELECT 
        PURCHASEINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        -PURCHASEINVOICE_NET AS TRANSACTION_AMOUNT
    FROM CODBEX_PURCHASEINVOICE
) AS CombinedData
GROUP BY DATE_TRUNC('day', TRANSACTION_DATE)
ORDER BY CASHFLOW_DATE DESC;
```

- VAT each month(sum(sales_invoices.vat) - sum(purchase_invoices.vat))

```sql
SELECT 
    SUM(VAT) AS CASHFLOW_VAT,
    DATE_TRUNC('month', TRANSACTION_DATE) AS CASHFLOW_DATE
FROM (
    SELECT 
        SALESINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        SALESINVOICE_VAT AS VAT
    FROM CODBEX_SALESINVOICE
    UNION ALL
    SELECT 
        PURCHASEINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        -PURCHASEINVOICE_VAT AS VAT
    FROM CODBEX_PURCHASEINVOICE
) AS CombinedData
GROUP BY DATE_TRUNC('month', TRANSACTION_DATE)
ORDER BY CASHFLOW_DATE DESC;
```

### Inventory

Quantity left in inventory

```sql
SELECT 
    p.PRODUCT_NAME,
    SUM(s.STOCKRECORD_DIRECTION) AS sum_direction
FROM 
    CODBEX_STOCKRECORD s
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PRODUCT p ON s.STOCKRECORD_PRODUCT = p.PRODUCT_ID
GROUP BY 
    p.PRODUCT_NAME;
```

- Products ranked by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
    p.PRODUCT_NAME,
    COUNT(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_ID) AS order_count
FROM
    CODBEX_PRODUCT p
JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
    p.PRODUCT_ID,
    p.PRODUCT_NAME
ORDER BY
    order_count DESC;
```

- Products availability ordered by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
p.PRODUCT_NAME,
COALESCE(SUM(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_QUANTITY), 0) AS total_sold,
SUM(CASE WHEN sr.STOCKRECORD_DIRECTION = 1 THEN sr.STOCKRECORD_QUANTITY ELSE -sr.STOCKRECORD_QUANTITY END) AS total_in_stock
FROM
CODBEX_PRODUCT p
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_STOCKRECORD sr ON p.PRODUCT_ID = sr.STOCKRECORD_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
p.PRODUCT_NAME
ORDER BY
total_sold DESC;
```

- Product categories ordered by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
    pc.PRODUCTCATEGORY_NAME,
    COUNT(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_ID) AS sales_count
FROM
    CODBEX_PRODUCTCATEGORY pc
JOIN
    CODBEX_PRODUCT p ON pc.PRODUCTCATEGORY_ID = p.PRODUCT_CATEGORY
JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
    pc.PRODUCTCATEGORY_NAME
ORDER BY
    sales_count DESC;
```

- Manufacturers ordered by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
m.MANUFACTURER_NAME,
COUNT(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_ID) AS sales_count
FROM
CODBEX_MANUFACTURER m
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_PRODUCT p ON m.MANUFACTURER_ID = p.PRODUCT_MANUFACTURER
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
m.MANUFACTURER_NAME
ORDER BY
sales_count DESC;
```

### Customers

- Customers ranked by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
    c.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    COUNT(si.SALESINVOICE_ID) AS invoice_count
FROM
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER c
LEFT JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESINVOICE si ON c.CUSTOMER_ID = si.SALESINVOICE_CUSTOMER
GROUP BY
    c.CUSTOMER_ID,
    c.CUSTOMER_NAME
ORDER BY
    invoice_count DESC;
```

Commit message:

Quantity left with stock adjustment

sample-reports.md, after:

Sample Reports in SQL format

## Finance

### Unpaid Sales Orders

- Basic query

```sql
SELECT *
FROM CODBEX_SALESORDER as SO
JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
```

- Count all sales orders and group by `CUSTOMER` and order by `number of unpaid orders`

```sql
SELECT
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.SALESORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_SALES_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.SALESORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDER SO ON C.CUSTOMER_ID = SO.SALESORDER_CUSTOMER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.CUSTOMER_ID, C.CUSTOMER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_SALES_ORDERS DESC;
```

- Count sales orders and group by `CUSTOMER` and order by `number of unpaid amount`

```sql
SELECT
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.SALESORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_SALES_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.SALESORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDER SO ON C.CUSTOMER_ID = SO.SALESORDER_CUSTOMER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.CUSTOMER_ID, C.CUSTOMER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_AMOUNT DESC;
```

- All unpaid sales orders group by `CUSTOMER`, `SALESORDER_NUMBER` and order by `SALESORDER_DUE` ASC 

```sql
SELECT
    SO.SALESORDER_NUMBER,
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    SO.SALESORDER_DATE,
    SO.SALESORDER_DUE,
    SUM(SO.SALESORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDER SO ON C.CUSTOMER_ID = SO.SALESORDER_CUSTOMER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_SALESORDERSTATUS S ON SO.SALESORDER_SALESORDERSTATUS = S.SALESORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.SALESORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.CUSTOMER_NAME, SO.SALESORDER_NUMBER
ORDER BY SO.SALESORDER_DUE ASC
```

### Unpaid Purchase Orders

- Basic query

```sql
SELECT *
FROM CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER as SO
JOIN
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
```

- Count all purchase orders and group by `SUPPLIER` and order by `number of unpaid orders`

```sql
SELECT
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.PURCHASEORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_PURCHASE_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.PURCHASEORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_SUPPLIER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER SO ON C.SUPPLIER_ID = SO.PURCHASEORDER_SUPPLIER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.SUPPLIER_ID, C.SUPPLIER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_PURCHASE_ORDERS DESC;
```

- Count purchase orders and group by `SUPPLIER` and order by `number of unpaid amount`

```sql
SELECT
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME,
    COUNT(SO.PURCHASEORDER_ID) AS UNPAID_PURCHASE_ORDERS,
    SUM(SO.PURCHASEORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_SUPPLIER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER SO ON C.SUPPLIER_ID = SO.PURCHASEORDER_SUPPLIER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.SUPPLIER_ID, C.SUPPLIER_NAME
ORDER BY 
    UNPAID_AMOUNT DESC;
```

- All unpaid purchase orders group by `SUPPLIER`, `PURCHASEORDER_NUMBER` and order by `PURCHASEORDER_DUE` ASC 

```sql
SELECT
    SO.PURCHASEORDER_NUMBER,
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME,
    SO.PURCHASEORDER_DATE,
    SO.PURCHASEORDER_DUE,
    SUM(SO.PURCHASEORDER_TOTAL) AS UNPAID_AMOUNT
FROM 
    CODBEX_SUPPLIER C
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDER SO ON C.SUPPLIER_ID = SO.PURCHASEORDER_SUPPLIER
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS S ON SO.PURCHASEORDER_PURCHASEORDERSTATUS = S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_ID
WHERE 
    S.PURCHASEORDERSTATUS_NAME != 'Paid'
GROUP BY 
    C.SUPPLIER_NAME, SO.PURCHASEORDER_NUMBER
ORDER BY SO.PURCHASEORDER_DUE ASC
```

### Cashflow

- Net Cashflow
```sql
SELECT 
    SUM(TRANSACTION_AMOUNT) AS CASHFLOW_NET,
    DATE_TRUNC('day', TRANSACTION_DATE) AS CASHFLOW_DATE
FROM (
    SELECT 
        SALESINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        SALESINVOICE_NET AS TRANSACTION_AMOUNT
    FROM CODBEX_SALESINVOICE
    UNION ALL
    SELECT 
        PURCHASEINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        -PURCHASEINVOICE_NET AS TRANSACTION_AMOUNT
    FROM CODBEX_PURCHASEINVOICE
) AS CombinedData
GROUP BY DATE_TRUNC('day', TRANSACTION_DATE)
ORDER BY CASHFLOW_DATE DESC;
```

- VAT each month(sum(sales_invoices.vat) - sum(purchase_invoices.vat))

```sql
SELECT 
    SUM(VAT) AS CASHFLOW_VAT,
    DATE_TRUNC('month', TRANSACTION_DATE) AS CASHFLOW_DATE
FROM (
    SELECT 
        SALESINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        SALESINVOICE_VAT AS VAT
    FROM CODBEX_SALESINVOICE
    UNION ALL
    SELECT 
        PURCHASEINVOICE_DATE AS TRANSACTION_DATE,
        -PURCHASEINVOICE_VAT AS VAT
    FROM CODBEX_PURCHASEINVOICE
) AS CombinedData
GROUP BY DATE_TRUNC('month', TRANSACTION_DATE)
ORDER BY CASHFLOW_DATE DESC;
```

### Inventory

- Quantity left in inventory from `STOCK_RECORD`

```sql
SELECT 
    p.PRODUCT_NAME,
    SUM(s.STOCKRECORD_DIRECTION) AS sum_direction
FROM 
    CODBEX_STOCKRECORD s
JOIN 
    CODBEX_PRODUCT p ON s.STOCKRECORD_PRODUCT = p.PRODUCT_ID
GROUP BY 
    p.PRODUCT_NAME;
```

- Quantity left in inventory with `STOCKADJUSTMENT` and `STOCKADJUSTMENTITEM`

```sql
SELECT 
    p.PRODUCT_NAME,
    SUM(s.STOCKRECORD_DIRECTION) +
    COALESCE((
        SELECT SUM(si.STOCKADJUSTMENTITEM_ADJUSTEDQUANTITY)
        FROM CODBEX_STOCKADJUSTMENTITEM si
        JOIN CODBEX_STOCKADJUSTMENT sa ON si.STOCKADJUSTMENTITEM_STOCKADJUSTMENT = sa.STOCKADJUSTMENT_ID
        WHERE si.STOCKADJUSTMENTITEM_PRODUCT = p.PRODUCT_ID
    ), 0) AS QUANTITY_LEFT
FROM 
    CODBEX_PRODUCT p
LEFT JOIN 
    CODBEX_STOCKRECORD s ON s.STOCKRECORD_PRODUCT = p.PRODUCT_ID
GROUP BY 
    p.PRODUCT_NAME;

```

- Products ranked by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
    p.PRODUCT_NAME,
    COUNT(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_ID) AS order_count
FROM
    CODBEX_PRODUCT p
JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
    p.PRODUCT_ID,
    p.PRODUCT_NAME
ORDER BY
    order_count DESC;
```

- Products availability ordered by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
p.PRODUCT_NAME,
COALESCE(SUM(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_QUANTITY), 0) AS total_sold,
SUM(CASE WHEN sr.STOCKRECORD_DIRECTION = 1 THEN sr.STOCKRECORD_QUANTITY ELSE -sr.STOCKRECORD_QUANTITY END) AS total_in_stock
FROM
CODBEX_PRODUCT p
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_STOCKRECORD sr ON p.PRODUCT_ID = sr.STOCKRECORD_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
p.PRODUCT_NAME
ORDER BY
total_sold DESC;
```

- Product categories ordered by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
    pc.PRODUCTCATEGORY_NAME,
    COUNT(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_ID) AS sales_count
FROM
    CODBEX_PRODUCTCATEGORY pc
JOIN
    CODBEX_PRODUCT p ON pc.PRODUCTCATEGORY_ID = p.PRODUCT_CATEGORY
JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
    pc.PRODUCTCATEGORY_NAME
ORDER BY
    sales_count DESC;
```

- Manufacturers ordered by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
m.MANUFACTURER_NAME,
COUNT(si.SALESINVOICEITEM_ID) AS sales_count
FROM
CODBEX_MANUFACTURER m
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_PRODUCT p ON m.MANUFACTURER_ID = p.PRODUCT_MANUFACTURER
LEFT JOIN
CODBEX_SALESINVOICEITEM si ON p.PRODUCT_ID = si.SALESINVOICEITEM_PRODUCT
GROUP BY
m.MANUFACTURER_NAME
ORDER BY
sales_count DESC;
```

### Customers

- Customers ranked by number of sales

```sql
SELECT
    c.CUSTOMER_NAME,
    COUNT(si.SALESINVOICE_ID) AS invoice_count
FROM
    CODBEX_CUSTOMER c
LEFT JOIN
    CODBEX_SALESINVOICE si ON c.CUSTOMER_ID = si.SALESINVOICE_CUSTOMER
GROUP BY
    c.CUSTOMER_ID,
    c.CUSTOMER_NAME
ORDER BY
    invoice_count DESC;
```
